VMSTAT

Procs
The procs data reports the number of processing jobs waiting to run and allows you to determine if there are processes “blocking” your system from operating smoothly.
Linuxnix-free-e-book
  r: The number of processes waiting for run time.
  b: The number of processes in uninterruptible sleep.
The non-zero value for ‘r’ would indicate that the system is loaded because ideally, we should not have processes waiting for CPU time and if they are then that implies that the system is loaded.

Memory
The information displayed in the memory section provides the same data about memory usage as the command free.

  swpd: the amount of virtual memory used i.e. the amount of memory that has been swapped out to a file/disk.
  free: the amount of idle memory.
  buff: the amount of memory used as buffers.
  cache: the amount of memory used as cache.
  inact: the amount of inactive memory. (-a option)
  active: the amount of active memory. (-a option)

Swap
The swap section reports the rate that memory is sent to or retrieved from the swap system.

The si column reports the amount of memory that is moved from swap to “real” memory per second.
The so column reports the amount of memory that is moved to swap from “real” memory per second.

si: Amount of memory swapped in from disk (/s).
so: Amount of memory swapped to disk (/s).

I/O
The io section reports the amount of input and output activity per second in terms of blocks read and blocks written.

The bi column reports the number of blocks received or read from a disk per second. The bo column reports the number of blocks sent or written to a disk per second.

bi: Blocks received from a block device (blocks/s).
bo: Blocks sent to a block device (blocks/s).

System
The system section reports data that reflects the number of system operations per second.

in: The number of interrupts per second, including the clock.
cs: The number of context switches per second.

CPU
The cpu section reports on the use of the system’s CPU resources.

These are percentages of total CPU time.
us: Time spent running non-kernel code. (user time, including nice time)
sy: Time spent running kernel code. (system time)
id: Time spent idle. Prior to Linux 2.5.41, this includes IO-wait time.
wa: Time spent waiting for IO. Prior to Linux 2.5.41, included in idle.
st: Time stolen from a virtual machine. Prior to Linux 2.6.11, unknown.
